5.1 Fill in the blanks in each of the following statements:
a) Typically, for statements are used for counter-controlled repetition and while statements for sentinel-controlled repetition.

b) The do…while statement tests the loop-continuation condition after executing the loop’s body; therefore, the body always executes at least once.

c) The switch statement selects among multiple actions based on the possible values of an integer variable or expression, or a String.

d) The continue statement, when executed in a repetition statement, skips the remaining statements in the loop body and proceeds with the next iteration of the loop.

e) The conditional and (&&) operator can be used to ensure that two conditions are both true before choosing a certain path of execution.

f) If the loop-continuation condition in a for header is initially false, the program does not execute the for statement’s body.

g) Methods that perform common tasks and do not require objects are called static methods.

5.2 State whether each of the following is true or false. If false, explain why.
a) The default case is required in the switch selection statement.
    False, the default case is optional
b) The break statement is required in the last case of a switch selection statement.
    False, the break statement is used to exit the switch case.
c) The expression ((x > y) && (a < b)) is true if either x > y is true or a < b is true.
    False. Both expressions must be true for the entire expression to be true when using the && operator.
d) An expression containing the || operator is true if either or both of its operands are true.
    True.
e) The comma (,) formatting flag in a format specifier (e.g., %,20.2f) indicates that a value should be output with a thousand separator.
    True.
f) To test for a range of values in a switch statement, use a hyphen (–) between the start and end values of the range in a case label.
g) Listing cases consecutively with no statements between them enables the cases to perform the same set of statements.

5.3 Write a Java statement or a set of Java statements to accomplish each of the following tasks:
a) Sum the odd integers between 1 and 99, using a for statement. Assume that the integer
variables sum and count have been declared.
b) Calculate the value of 2.5 raised to the power of 3, using the pow method.
c) Print the integers from 1 to 20, using a while loop and the counter variable i. Assume
that the variable i has been declared, but not initialized. Print only five integers per line.
[Hint: Use the calculation i % 5. When the value of this expression is 0, print a newline
character; otherwise, print a tab character. Assume that this code is an application. Use
the System.out.println() method to output the newline character, and use the System.
out.print('\t') method to output the tab character.]
d) Repeat part (c), using a for statement.

5.5 Describe the four basic elements of counter-controlled repetition.
5.6 Compare and contrast the while and for repetition statements.
5.7 Discuss a situation in which it would be more appropriate to use a do…while statement
than a while statement. Explain why.
5.8 Compare and contrast the break and continue statements.
